Elite Magical Archer
Medium humanoid, any alignment
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 66 (12d8 + 12)
Speed 35 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
14 (+2) 19 (+4) 13 (+1) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 10 (+0)
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +6
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages any two language
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Arcane Shot (1/Turn). When the archer hits a creature
with a ranged weapon attack, , it can apply one of the
following effects to the target in addition  to the
damage of the attack:
Grasping Arrow. The target takes 7 (2d6) poison
damage, its speed is reduced by 10 feet, and it is
overwhelmed by brambles, taking 7 (2d6) slashing
damage the first time on each turn it moves 1 foot
or more without teleporting. The target or any
creature that can reach it can use its action to
remove the brambles. Otherwise, they last for 1
minute.
Shadow Arrow. The target takes 7 (2d6) psychic
damage, and it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom
saving throw or be blinded until the start of the
archer's next turn.
Banishing Arrow. The target must succeed on a DC
13 Charisma saving throw or be banished to the
ethereal plane. While in the ethereal plane in this
manner, the target has a speed of 0 and is
incapacitated. At the end of its next turn, the target
reappears in the space it vacated or in the nearest
unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
Beguiling Arrow. The target takes 7 (2d6) psychic
damage, and it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom
saving throw or become charmed by the archer
until the start of the archer's next turn.
Detonating Arrow. The target and all other creatures
within 10 feet of the target take 7 (2d6) force
damage.
Enfeebling Arrow. The target takes 7 (2d6) necrotic
damage, and it must succeed on a DC 13
Constitution saving throw or the damage dealt by
its weapon attacks is halved until the start of the
archer's next turn.
Magic Arrows. The archer's ranged weapon attacks  are
magical.
Actions
Multiattack. The archer makes two attacks with its
longbow.
Piercing Arrow (Recharge 5-6). The archer looses a
magic arrow in a 30 foot by 1 foot line, passing
harmlessly through objects and ignoring cover. Each
creature in the line must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving
throw, taking 17 (3d8 + 4) piercing damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Seeking Arrow (Recharge 5-6). The archer makes a
longbow attack against a creature it has seen in the
past minute, even if the creature isn't in line of sight.
The arrow flies around corners and obstacles. On a hit,
the archer learns the target's location.
Reactions
Curving Arrow. When the archer misses a target with a
ranged weapon attack, it can reroll the attack against a
different target within 60 feet of the original target.