Legendary Horizon Walker
Medium humanoid (any race), any alignment
Armor Class 14 (studded leather)
Hit Points 121 (22d8 + 22)
Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
10 (+0) 15 (+2) 12 (+1) 14 (+2) 18 (+4) 10 (+0)
Skills Arcana +6, Perception +8, Survival +8
Senses passive Perception 18
Languages Deep Speech, Primordial, plus any one language
Challenge 11 (7,200 XP)
Distant Strike. When the horizon walker takes the Multiattack action, it can teleport up to 10 feet before
or after each attack to an unoccupied space it can see.
Ethereal Jaunt. As a bonus action, the horizon walker
can magically shift from the Material Plane to the
Ethereal Plane, or vice versa.
Actions
Multiattack. The horizon walker makes three attacks with its subtle knife. Each attack must be against a
different target.
Subtle Knife. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5
ft.,  one target. Hit: 13 (1d4 + 2d8 + 2) force damage.
On a critical hit against a target in an astral body (as
with the astral projection spell), the horizon walker can
cut the silvery cord that tethers the target to its
material body, instead of dealing damage. This is a
magic weapon.
Detect Portal (3/Day). The horizon walker magically
detects the direction and distance to the nearest
planar portal or planar gash (a small hidden connection between worlds, a potential planar portal) on the same
plane of existence as it.
Open Portal. The horizon walker targets a hidden
planar gash with its subtle knife, creating a one-way
portal to a randomly-determined plane of existence.
The portal stays open until the end of the horizon
walker's next turn; the horizon walker can use its
action to keep the portal open.
Reactions
Spectral Defense. When the horizon walker takes
damage from an attack, it can give itself resistance to
the damage of the attack.
Legendary Actions
The horizon walker can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary
action can be used at a time,  and only at the end of
another creature's turn. Spent legendary actions are
regained at the start of each turn.

Open Portal to the Elemental Plane of Air. The horizon
walker uses its subtle knife to open a two-way portal to
the Elemental Plane of Air. Until the end of the Horizon
Walker's next turn, the portal stays open and emanates
a gust of wind in a 60 foot by 5 foot line. Creatures that
start their turn in the area of effect must succeed on a
DC 15 Strength saving throw or be pushed 30 feet in
the direction of the wind. Ranged weapon attacks that
pass through the area of effect are made with
disadvantage. A creature moving against the wind must
spend 3 feet of movement for every 1 foot moved.

Open Portal to the Elemental Plane of Earth (Costs 2
Actions). The horizon walker uses its subtle knife to
open a two-way portal to the Elemental Plane of Earth.
The portal opens and immediately closes. A 10 foot
high, 5 foot wide, and 30 foot long wall of stone
appears next to the portal in a configuration of the
horizon walker's choice. The wall has an AC of 18 and
100 hit points.

Open Portal to the Elemental Plane of Fire (Costs 2
Actions). The horizon walker uses its subtle knife to
open a two-way portal to the Elemental Plane of Fire.
The portal opens and immediately closes. Creatures in
a 15-foot cone originating from the portal must make a
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 33 (6d10) fire
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage as a
successful one.

Open Portal to the Elemental Plane of Water. The
horizon walker uses its subtle knife to open a two-way
portal to the Elemental Plane of Air. The portal opens
and immediately closes. Creatures in a 20-foot cube
originating  from the portal must make a DC 15
Strength saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes
11 (2d10) bludgeoning damage and is knocked prone.
On a successful save, a target takes half as much
damage and isn't knocked prone.
